---                                                                             
layout: post
title: "Book Study - The Truth About Leadership"
date: 2018-04-03T15:52:43-07:00
author: RetroMe
summary: >
  The Truth About Leadership by James M. Kouzes and Barry Z. Kouzes is a book
  designed to cut through the clutter and help readers understand what matters
  the most in leadership. This book was recommended to me by my mentor. This
  book presents questions and provides answers relevant to leadership without
  any excess. It is a quick read with plenty of good information.
categories: books 
thumbnail: fa-book
tags:
 - book review
 - leadership
 - mentorship
---

## The Truth About Leadership

<div class="video-container">
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/3cpLFFZsbWY"
	frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>{: itemprop="associatedMedia" itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/VideoObject"}
</div>

## Introduction

This is a collection of notes and ideas I developed as I completed reading The
Truth About Leadership.

[The Truth About Leadership][amazonbook] was written by the bestselling authors
of 'The Leadership Challenge'. The fundamentals of leadership are enduring and
unending. We must learn the basics of leadership, hone those basics, and then
implement and implement again those basics into our every day life. The most
basic aspects of leadership are nearly universal across age, gender, and
generational gaps. When we are learning a new skills, we obviously start with
the basics in order to best set the ground work for further improvement. You
master the basics and often times you will discover that many skills consist of
only minor tweaks to the basics in order to attain advanced mastery.

The Truth About Leadership is focused on developing the basics. An emphasis is
placed on understanding the role, benefits, and intentions of leadership. We
can only be as effective as we believe ourselves to be. The 'truth' is that we
must know when, where, and how to implement our skills in order to best serve
our subordinates, selves, and our leaders. We must challenge ourselves to
develop our skill set, focus on skill development, and provide value in every
thing we do.

Leadership is universal. Every culture around the globe has structure,
intention, and some form of leadership. We as humans have a natural pack animal
mentality that has been improved over the years with skills and developments
such as tolerance, inclusion, and a willingness to sacrifice of self for the
betterment of the pack. We see these same behaviors in animals and insects that
are social. While no pack of wolves has ever built a skyscraper or sent a
member of their pack into space - we have. It is in leadership that we succeed
as a whole.

## You make a difference 

You matter. Every action you take as a leader will contribute or detract from
the success of the mission. Children, teens, and adults can be leaders. You can
lead a friend or a family member. You can lead a club or a business. You can be
a leader at any time in your life and could lead any number of peoples. The
most important aspect of leadership is understanding that your actions matter
and your intentions and efforts can and will make a difference. You may not
always make a positive difference. It can be a poor performance or even a bad
one. Regardless of the outcome you must be ready to take responsibility and
accept responsibility.

You have everything you need to lead. You do not need special powers, a magic
ring, or some kind of spell. You can begin to implement leadership with
something as simple as a phone call, a well placed question, or a letter. Even
young children can take the role of leader through grass roots efforts and time
well spent. You are a leader, right now!

Leadership starts at home. The majority of respondents to the poll presented
felt that family members were the most important leaders in their life.
Understanding leadership begins at home. Parents, siblings, and the people you
meet early and often will be a great influence on you. You should consider this
in your actions. Especially those of us working in law enforcement must
understand that the young will look up to us and we should put our best foot
forward for those who may be looking up to us.

Good leaders will follow the five practices of exemplary leadership. These
principles are very similar to those found in the book 'Extreme Ownership' and
with good reason. They are basic. You must implement the basics if you plan to
lead because they are the simplest, fastest, and easiest way to inspire others
to do the job you need of them. They build ownership and this builds quality.

### The Five Practices Of Exemplary Leadership

1. Model the way
2. Inspire a shared vision
3. Challenge the process
4. Enable others to act
5. Encourage the heart

## Credibility is the foundation of leadership

Leadership starts with yourself. It can only continue with the faith and belief
of others. Any one has the capability to lead but only those leaders who can
build credibility will be able to stay leaders. Leaders who are not credible
are the leaders I both remember the best as well as hated the most. If you can
not inspire confidence, build rapport, and keep yourself from being a source of
untruth, then I do not have any faith in you. In law enforcement I will often
call it the 'careful' comment. You can say things without revealing sources, or
betraying the mission. You can be kept from saying thing. But if you actively
lie, abuse, or otherwise betray those around you, you will find their
willingness to help you plummet. You need to be honest, forward thinking,
inspiring, and competent.

In law enforcement we must develop and foster our credibility at all times. The
general public will often find themselves face to face with law enforcement in
only their most dire or trying times. It is rare for them to be afforded the
opportunity to learn from, interact with, or develop relationships with the men
and women who represent the law within their communities in a stress free
environment. I have spoken to people who develop anxiety just from seeing an
Officer in uniform due to an irrational fear they may be singled out or harmed
simply due to the presence of the Officer. Wouldn't it be wonderful if the
public felt inspired or heartened when they see a Police Officer? If a vehicle
branded Police did not strike fear and anxiety into the hearts of the general
public? If our credibility was so great and our public trust so deep that we
could interact with the community in a consistently positive way?

We must always remember that it is easy to loose trust and difficult to build
it. A thousand successes can be cleaned from the slate with only a single
falter or mistake. We should do our best to develop trust, accept ownership of
the circumstance, and strive to develop relationships with the public that
instills faith. Leaders should show case the successes of their subordinates so
more people can see how well we do on such a consistent basis.

## Values drive commitment

Who are you? The people you interact with want to know who you are. It is one
of the most important parts of being a leader. You need to be able to describe
who you are as a person. Many people will rely entirely on their title or
position to define them. A Lieutenant, Sergeant, or Chief Executive Officer may
fall back to their title to describe themselves when asked to do so. We should
be able to describe ourselves with our experiences, needs, and wants.

### Example Description

	I am a computer programmer with ten years of experience in software
	development who believes strongly in the Free Software Foundation and their
	mission. I feel that privacy, education, and community are extremely
	important. I also feel that service in some capacity is important and
	therefore I have five years of experience in the State Guard as well as
	several years spent working in a support role for Law Enforcement. I also
	spend much of my free time teaching others about technology.

It is easy to see from my description that I believe in law, individual rights,
and service to the community and others. My values easily line up with the
stated values of my career choice.

One of the best ways to define who you are is to better understand your values.
Your personal values are more important than anything else. You will rarely
find successful people in careers that have counter values to the ones they
hold personally. This is because it is much easier to do a job when you believe
it to be worthy and take responsibility for it.

## Focusing on the future sets leaders apart

What is your vision? Where do you see yourself, the company, and most
importantly, your subordinates in 1, 3, 5, and 10 years? A leader is capable of
peering into the future and seeing what will benefit themselves and others. The
working person is usually concerned about their future in the company, their
career future on a whole, and what they need to be doing to meet the grade. The
leader must be looking at themselves, the company, the employees, and the
competition.

In law enforcement, I feel we must be ready to adapt as criminal activity
changes. Crime is becoming high tech and is more likely to be committed over
state lines, across international borders, and in diverse and foreign places.
How do we focus on such major upheaval? We plan, we practice, and we put in
effort to make sure that our employees are developing the skills and techniques
necessary to stay relevant.

## You can't do it alone

You cannot be a leader without some one willing to follow you. Our greatest
achievements and our failures will be a team effort that we must take ownership
for. The only way to be a leader is to inspire the confidence in others to
follow you. You can inspire confidence by encouraging others to take
responsibility for their work, to develop their skill set, and to build a
personal interest in the success of the mission.

Build relationships. Develop your personal skills. Focus on how you can inspire
others to do great. Build the skills you need to unlock the potential of
others. It is in their success that you can rapidly build up a culture of
winning.

## Trust Rules

Trust is the foundation of following. The individuals whom you are expected to
lead will not be able to take your advice, work towards higher needs, or
contribute to the cohesiveness of the group if they live in fear or are unable
to believe that you are looking out for them. It is easy to see how people have
only two things they can worry about at work. They can worry about lower order
needs like their position, work, pay, and the entirety of their microcosm or
they can worry about higher order needs. Higher order needs include the
mission, the company, their self improvement necessary to fit the job, and
building the relationships at work necessary to raise all members of the team
up.

If your employees believe and know you are looking out for their lower order
needs, they need not worry about them as much. They can focus on big picture
work while feeling confidence that you as a leader will look out for their
careers. They will also be more likely to take responsibility and put in more
work and effort if they feel that you as a leader and the company are willing
to foster learning and help them overcome mistakes in a positive manner.

Building trust is a tangible endeavor. You build trust with deed and action. If
you are willing to say what you mean and then follow through with it, people
will take you seriously. You cannot make promises or be flippant in when and
how you break your word. People expect the truth and they expect to be trusted.
You do not have to be transparent in all things but it is helpful if you tell
the people you are working with when and why you cannot be absolutely truthful
with them. A simple 'I cannot divulge at this time but please trust that I will
do ... when I can.' will do wonders to build that trust.

Trust is mandatory to build a desire for value added behavior in those who work
for you.

## Challenge is the crucible for greatness

You must understand that all actions will develop some form of adversity. Any
thing you do or fail to do will cause a fundamental change in your current life
path that you must be prepared for. Leaders are resilient and they are willing
to do the work and put in the effort necessary to cause positive change. It can
take time but the ultimate goal is to turn adversity and work into positives
that benefit the workers, the self, and the company above. Leaders are forged
in challenge.

Adversity, strife, and challenges are your future. When you choose leadership,
you are not choosing the easy path. You are making the decision to actively
work towards constructive goals while functioning under the most demanding and
grueling expectations. You are choosing a path that requires you to persevere
and survive on a daily basis with little ability to fly under the radar. You
are choosing to lead.

Failure happens. You should accept now that if you are not pushing yourself
then you will be successful at all times. Only by pushing yourself forward can
you develop the skills you need from the experiences of failure. We should not
hope for failure or make mistakes on purpose to test ourselves. What we should
be doing is building the drive and grit required to keep pushing ourselves even
when we make mistakes or fall down.

## You either lead by example or you don't lead at all 

Be consistent in word and deed. Law enforcement requires that we uphold the law
while living within it. One of the most embarrassing and problematic events that
can occur is when a law enforcement officer lives outside the law. We have seen
this in the news countless times and every time the public is angered and
disgusted. How could someone espouse law and order while living a life style
that is anything but? So what should we remember? Develop your values,
understand your path, and walk it to the fullest.

We must provide the text book example as best we can. While failure does happen
and missteps will occur, it is our eternal struggle to always try our best to
follow through and do what is correct. This spiritual cohesion is not just for
the sake of the public but also for our subordinates and the leadership above
us. Lead by example.

Even in a desk job, when doing 'customer service' related functions, I attempt
to lead by example. If someone comes to my office for help, I do not stop
helping until we get them to a satisfactory hand off point. If I cannot help
them, I take them to the person who can help them, introduce them, and explain
in short their issue and then perform a hand off. It will verify that no one
can feel left out or abandoned in action or inaction. You must develop follow
through, ownership, and finalize all things to their conclusion. This also
builds trust.

Also remember that we make mistakes and if we do we should be honest and up
front about it. Do not flippantly dismiss your own mistakes while exacting
severe punishment on others. This makes you seem petty and weak of spirit. You
should handle every incident with the same even hand that fosters growth and
learning and now just reliance on negative reinforcement.

## The best leaders are the best learners

Learn. You can learn to be a leader, you can learn to cook, and you can learn
how a rocket works. In the act of learning, more is more. We should focus on
all skills and all abilities. The ultimate leader is the ultimate learner. I
like to tell people "If I do not know it, I will find out for you." when asked
about something I am not familiar with. As a teacher, I would often be asked
questions by students that I could not answer in a satisfactory method and I
would then write down the question, research it, and come back with links,
proof, and explanation. I was told that I was an inspiration due to my method
of honesty and then research on topics I did not know.

The world is changing at an incredible rate. We have new technology that is
changing every day, a better education system around the globe, and fierce
international competition in almost every work or job. We should be focused on
improving ourselves and encouraging others to build themselves up as well.
Learn how to learn and do it. Even this article I write now is an attempt at
bettering others and myself. I am reading a book, writing notes, creating an
article, and then releasing it to the world for someone to read.

Learning to learn is important. We need deliberate practice with an intent to
improve. What ever skills or knowledge you want to improve requires practice
and effort. It will rarely be fun but it will be a way to improve ourselves.
Practice your handgun draw, learn to draw a dog, or any thing else you can
imagine or set your heart on. Experts believe we need 10,000 hours of practice
over 10 years. Get to work. 

## Leadership is an affair of the heart

You cannot be a leader if you do not want to be a leader. Our desires, our
hopes, and our willingness all hinge on our ability to take ownership for the
mission and follow through. You have to want it. Times will suck and things
will be bad. We will be unhappy. But we cannot lead if we do not put effort
into it.

Servant leadership is the act of leading while also bringing attention to the
efforts, success, and capabilities of those we lead. You do not seek the
spotlight but instead you shine it on others. You do not look for awards but
instead bestow them on others. You do not flaunt your abilities but instead you
show off the accomplishments of those who work for you. You must become the
unit cheerleader who helps when others are down and focuses on the positive in
public.

Be visible, available, and present. Show up to awards ceremonies even if you
are not on the bill. Support others. Celebrate with the team. Eat lunch
together. Do what is necessary to make yourself visible and approachable. It
helps build trust.

Leaders are positive. You cannot be positive if you are not happy with your
work and contribution. You can provide a positive word, an uplifting hand, or
an ear for someone to speak to. All of these things breed positive attitudes.
The more positive that we are, the more likely that others will be positive as
well. This infectious behavior leads to greater success and more wins.

## Conclusion

Say yes. Yes you can be a leader. Yes you can make a difference. Yes you have
the ability to lead. Yes. The change that we want to make and the positive
benefits that we want to bring all come from yes. Being willing to try, fail,
and try again. An endless cycle of yes is what will help us to accomplish the
mission. You may have to answer yes when someone asked if you failed, but you
can also answer yes when asked if you still solved the issue or tried again at
the least.

My final takeaways -

1. You matter. You wouldn't be interested in leadership if you didn't.

2. You can do it. Leaders are taught.

3. Be credible. Your word matters. Do what you say.

4. Leaders only exist because of their followers. You can't do it alone.

5. Build trust and keep it.

6. Bad things happen. Take responsibility and learn from it.

7. Lead by example.

8. Keep learning.

9. Take ownership of the situation. You need to want to be a leader.

10. Don't be afraid to fail.

[amazonbook]: https://www.amazon.com/Truth-about-Leadership-Heart-Matter/dp/0470633549/ 'Shop on Amazon'
