---
layout: post
title: "Book Study - Extreme Ownership"
date: 2018-02-15T15:52:43-07:00
author: RetroMe
summary: >
  Extreme Ownership by Jocko Willink and Leif Babin is a #1 New York Times Best
  Seller book on SEAL leadership. This book was recommended to me by my mentor.
  The book itself focuses on leadership through the eyes of Navy SEALS and how
  the principles that they implemented on combat missions is applicable to the
  civilian world.
categories: books
thumbnail: fa-book
tags:
 - SEALS
 - book review
 - leadership
 - mentorship
---

## How U.S. Navy SEALS Lead And Win

<div class="video-container">
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/ljqra3BcqWM"
	frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>{: itemprop="associatedMedia" itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/VideoObject"}
</div>

## Introduction

The book [Extreme Ownership][amazonbook] is an interesting guide book to
leadership. Each chapter begins with a story of events experienced during war
time in [Iraq][battleoframadi], followed by a principle that applies to the
story, and finally an example of a real world business application relevant to
the lesson is provided. A sandwich of knowledge is made in each chapter
designed to provide you a detailed break down on how events that transpired
under the ultimate pressure of war can apply with ease in the board room or
business meeting.

My intent with this book study is to provide a paragraph on each chapter and
what I felt I got out of it. Consider it a glimpse at my personal notes as I
worked through the book.

## Chapter 01 

### Extreme Ownership

The men of Task Unit Bruiser suffer an extreme set back in their operations
after one of their SEALS engages an Iraqi soldier, an ally, and kills him. In
the fog of war, they almost end the lives of several American war fighters due
to miscommunication and confusion. The leadership of the Task Unit are brought
to task by their superiors and that is the moment that the authors of this
manual began developing the idea behind 'Extreme Ownership'. The driving
principle of this chapter is the buck stops here mentality. Success and failure
will always begin and end with the leadership and while mistakes may be made,
it is important to remember that we as leaders are responsible for every aspect
of the mission.

## Chapter 02

### No Bad Teams, Only Bad Leaders

An under performing team will only live up the expectations of the leader above
them. A bad leader will often set low expectations, demoralize the group, or
fail to inspire his subordinates. A poor attitude is infectious and failure can
often be attributed to the leaders acceptance that failure is not only an option
but inevitable. The reverse side to this coin is that a good leader can often
inspire his troops to rally, encourage them to succeed, and work to set
standards that lift their spirits and motivate them to succeed. A leader with a
can do attitude will often find he can inspire his subordinates to levels of
success that they did not expect or were not yet aware that they could achieve.

## Chapter 03

### Believe

The mission cannot be accomplished if you do not believe in the mission. Build
your faith and it will shine like a beacon. You must inspire confidence in the
mission and the righteousness of your cause if you want to get the best
performance from your subordinates. This means you need to be able to
reasonably express the what, when, where, why, and how to your group and keep
them feeling that they have a vested interest in winning. If they do not feel
ownership, they will not live up to your expectations. Educate them to give
them buy in.

## Chapter 04

### Check the Ego

Sometimes words hurt. Don't let it scare you. Be prepared to ask for help,
offer help, and accept criticism. You cannot allow your own biases or fears to
prevent the success of the mission. Be prepared to do what is right and not
what protects you from scrutiny or criticism.

## Chapter 05

### Cover and Move

Team work makes the dream work. You are only as strong as the sum of the parts.
Sometimes problems happen and someone else has to step in to protect or cover.
A unit should be able to work in a manner in which they are able to communicate
and support so that all members of the group can succeed. We as leaders should
be able to identify weaknesses in the organization, communicate enough to ask
for help, and cover problems so that no part of the organization folds.
Encourage strength through cooperation.

## Chapter 06

### Simple

Baking a cake is simple. You mix ingredients, bake them, and a cake pops out.
If someone tells you to 'bake a cake', it may seem simple but the reality is
that you may not know what kind of cake or what to use to do it. Baking a cake
becomes infinitely harder as we realize there are numerous ways to bake a cake
and that we can have any number of cakes. Angel food, devils food, German
chocolate, and so on. Simplicity means being apparent. You will find much more
success if you hand a man a recipe, make a firm request for pineapple upside
down cake, and then set concise expectations. Would you rather receive a note
that says 'bake me a cake' or would you be confident in success if you were
handed a recipe, instructions, and a timeline on when and where that cake
should be delivered? Be simple but be verbose. Instructions don't have to be
easy but they should be verbose and descriptive with firmly set expectations.

## Chapter 07

### Prioritize and Execute

What matters now? How do the sum of the parts add up to a completed mission?
Have you ever heard the saying 'How do you eat an elephant'? The answer is
simple. 'One bite at a time'. We must decide what matters now, how each
priority supports the mission, and how they chain together. If your software
cannot run without a server then focus on building the infrastructure first.
Pick a vendor. Design a deployment plan. Integrate your solution. Then push
your software out. You set goals, design a plan, implement it, and then work in
an asynchronous manner as best as you can. Someone can be writing code while
you wait on delivery of hardware and someone else can be writing the ansible
play books using a virtual machine until you have the infrastructure in place.
The most important thing is that you are setting simple and obvious goals with
a clear goal post that demarcates success.

## Chapter 08

### Decentralized Command

You cannot be everywhere at once. Leaders need to have faith in their
subordinates and understand how to manage their team. A fire team usually
consists of 6 men and that is the ideal number of people for a single leader to
manage. If you are going to manage a team of people you need to be able to
identify leaders, give them orders, and trust in them to accomplish the
mission. You as a leader cannot and will not succeed if you attempt to
micromanage the happenings of those working several layers down. You must be
able to trust in your team to do what is needed to accomplish the mission.

## Chapter 09

### Plan

Set expectations. In software development, we like 'repeatable' and 'testable'.
I expect my software to do the same thing every time I ask it to function in an
expected manner. Planning means setting expectations and preparing for
eventualities. We train to fight and we fight like we train. You should be able
to feel confident that the team members you supervise will be able to do their
day to day work to the expected level while also being ready to adapt and
overcome if presented with a situation outside what is normal. We cannot
predict every situation but what we can do is plan for both the normal as well
as the abnormal in order to instill the confidence required to react when
required.

## Chapter 10

### Leading Up and Down the Chain of Command

Be prepared to instill the confidence necessary to get the support you need
when it must come from beyond your reach. You will be expected to demonstrate
leadership that travels in both directions and this means you must learn how to
curry favor as well as garner the support you and your team need to survive. I
felt this chapter boiled down to 'play ball'. You need to do what is necessary
to win and that often times means convincing someone with more clout to get in
your corner and assist you in succeeding. Learn to communicate and work with
others within your organization to bring to bear the full resources of those
you work with.

## Chapter 11

### Decisiveness amid Uncertainty

Aggression. Speed, surprise, and violence of action. You must be prepared to
take action without hesitation or fear. You require confidence. Don't let
things 'happen' but instead you must be prepared to take responsibility and do
what is necessary to protect the team as well as the sanctity of the mission. A
recurring theme in the military is 'Who dares, wins'. Don't wait but instead,
do. You are more likely to find success when you force the hand than when you
wait for someone else to corner you or manipulate you.

## Chapter 12

### Discipline Equals Freedom -- The Dichotomy of Leadership

You get what you put in. You must communicate and only through communication
can you inspire others to trust in you. Often times you will find leadership is
unwilling to take a chance on you or our ideas because they feel they are in
the dark. I have heard two schools of thought over my time in different
organizations and it appears that Extreme Ownership implies that you should be
vocal, explanatory, as well as thorough. They believe you can inspire
confidence through communication. I agree but I have also spoken to leaders who
have told me in no uncertain terms that sometimes it is best that the higher
ups simply not be aware of the intricacies of the operation. We should be
be careful and cautious in what is shared. I think both are applicable. You can
explain your thought process, you intentions, and you recipe for success
without interjection of superfluous information. Don't include in the brief
what should be handled at the line level.

## Conclusion

Extreme Ownership is an incredibly fascinating book that combines business with
a riveting tale of war, loss, and lessons learned the hard way. I recommend
this book to anyone looking for a crash course on how a leader should act. It
is an inspiring story and provides the reader with a glimpse into a historical
record of untold value in hard fought lessons and an education written in
blood. It is well worth the weekend or two it will require to read the book.

My final takeaways -

1. You and you alone are responsible for the mission.

2. Explain what to do and then inspire them to understand why.

3. Don't be afraid to cut the dead weight.

4. Share information.

5. Simple. Not easy. Don't make people guess or wonder.

6. Communicate and confirm. Don't assume someone knows if you didn't tell them.

7. Make a priority list. Execute the list. Reassess. Repeat.

8. Learn to command up the chain.

9. Don't be afraid to take the hard job.

10. Help people feel they have a chance at winning.

[battleoframadi]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Battle_of_Ramadi_(2006) 'The battle of Ramadi'
[amazonbook]: https://www.amazon.com/Extreme-Ownership-U-S-Navy-SEALs-ebook/dp/B0739PYQSS/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1519060396&sr=8-1&keywords=Extreme+Ownership 'Buy the book Extreme Ownership'
